session-delivery-resources/docs/01.Installation.md, before:

# STEP 01 — Prepare your environment

## Summary

This document provides a concise installation and architecture overview for the `aspiredemo` solution (Zava-Aspire). It covers required tooling, a short description of the solution architecture, minimal local run instructions, and the key configuration points needed to run the demo.

---

## Prerequisites

- .NET SDK 9.x (verify with `dotnet --info` or `dotnet --list-sdks`) ([Download .NET](https://dotnet.microsoft.com/en-us/download))
- Visual Studio 2022 (recommended 17.14.13+) or Visual Studio Code with C#/.NET extensions
- Docker Desktop (required only for containerized runs)
- Azure subscription (required only if you plan to deploy to Azure or use Azure AI Foundry)
- Azure CLI (`az`) and optionally Azure Developer CLI (`azd`) if you plan to use `azure.yaml`/`azd` for provisioning
- Git

Notes:

- The solution is cross-platform — it runs on Windows, macOS, and Linux.

---

## Architecture (aspiredemo) — brief

- ZavaAppHost: the application host / orchestrator that composes local microservices and binds Azure resources when publishing.
- Microservices (examples):
  - `Products` — product catalog (with SQL Server back end)
  - `Store` — demo front-end that aggregates other services
  - `AnalyzePhotoService`, `CustomerInformationService`, `ToolReasoningService`, `InventoryService`, `MatchmakingService`, `LocationService`, `NavigationService`
  - `SingleAgentDemo` and `MultiAgentDemo` (demo scenarios)
- Shared layers: `Shared`, `DataEntities`, `SearchEntities`, `VectorEntities`, `CartEntities`
- AI agents: Agent definitions and configurations are managed in Azure AI Foundry. Services call agents by ID; runtime configuration uses `aifoundry`/`aifoundryproject` keys.
- Infra: `ZavaAppHost/infra` and `azure.yaml` contain deployment metadata (used with `azd` or manual provisioning).

See `aspiredemo/ZavaAppHost/Program.cs` for the service composition and the configuration keys consumed at runtime.

---

## Necessary Cloud Resources needed for local run

Before running the demo locally you must provision a small set of cloud resources one time only; see the detailed guide here: [02 — Needed Cloud Resources](./02.NeededCloudResources.md). These resources (Azure AI Foundry project, model deployments, agent deployments, and any required search/index or storage connections) are required for the agents and demo services to work when run locally.

## Running in Terminal

Open PowerShell / Bash in this folder (`aspiredemo`) or navigate to the solution folder and run:

```powershell
# Restore dependencies
dotnet restore Zava-Aspire.slnx

# Build the solution
dotnet build Zava-Aspire.slnx

# Trust local dev certs for HTTPS
dotnet dev-certs https --trust

# Run 
dotnet run --project ./ZavaAppHost/ZavaAppHost.csproj
```

## Running in Visual Studio

1. Open `aspiredemo\Zava-Aspire.slnx` in Visual Studio.
2. In Solution Explorer, right-click the project '1 Aspire/ZavaAppHost' to run and select `Set as Startup Project`.
3. Press F5 to run (or Ctrl+F5 to run without debugging).

## Running in Visual Studio Code / Visual Studio Code Insiders

1. Open `aspiredemo` folder in Visual Studio Code / Visual Studio Code Insiders.
2. In Solution Explorer, right-click the project '1 Aspire/ZavaAppHost' to run and select `Set as Startup Project`.
3. Right-Click '1 Aspire/ZavaAppHost', Select 'Debug' -> 'Start New Instance'

The console will display the listening URL(s) (for example `https://localhost:17104/login?t=7040c2fb1bad0ebe1a467bd1ad076f5e`). Open the indicated URL in your browser to access the demo UI.

## 1st Run set secrets

The first time running the solution, the .NET Aspire dashboard will require you to set up the necessary secrets for accessing Azure resources.

![](./imgs/40-AspireFirstRun.png)

Complete the values in the form, where:

- `aifoundry` is the connection string: `Endpoint=https://<your-resource>.cognitiveservices.azure.com/;ApiKey=<your-api-key>`
- `applicationinsights` is the Application Insights connection string from your Application Insights resource
- 'aifoundruyproject' is the Project endpoint URL from your AI Foundry project settings page
- `customerinformationagentid`, `inventoryagentid` and all the other agent ids, are the agent IDs you created in the previous step; see [02 — Needed Cloud Resources](./02.NeededCloudResources.md) for details.

- check the `Save to user secrets` box to save them in your user secrets project for future runs.

![](./imgs/45-setAspireUserSecrets.png)

---

Commit message:

Update installation document to clarify resource organization and provide focused guidance

session-delivery-resources/docs/01.Installation.md, after:

# STEP 01 — Prepare your environment

> Note: This document has been split into three focused documents to make it easier to find the information you need:

> - `Prerequisites.md` — tooling, SDKs, and access requirements (see `./Prerequisites.md`).
> - `02.NeededCloudResources.md` — cloud resource setup and AI Foundry guidance (see `./02.NeededCloudResources.md`).
> - `HowToRunDemoLocally.md` — step-by-step local build and run instructions, secrets, and smoke-test commands (see `./HowToRunDemoLocally.md`).

The original content remains below for historical reference.

## Summary

This document provides a concise installation and architecture overview for the `aspiredemo` solution (Zava-Aspire). It covers required tooling, a short description of the solution architecture, minimal local run instructions, and the key configuration points needed to run the demo.

---

## Prerequisites

- .NET SDK 9.x (verify with `dotnet --info` or `dotnet --list-sdks`) ([Download .NET](https://dotnet.microsoft.com/en-us/download))
- Visual Studio 2022 (recommended 17.14.13+) or Visual Studio Code with C#/.NET extensions
- Docker Desktop (required only for containerized runs)
- Azure subscription (required only if you plan to deploy to Azure or use Azure AI Foundry)
- Azure CLI (`az`) and optionally Azure Developer CLI (`azd`) if you plan to use `azure.yaml`/`azd` for provisioning
- Git

Notes:

- The solution is cross-platform — it runs on Windows, macOS, and Linux.

---

## Architecture (aspiredemo) — brief

- ZavaAppHost: the application host / orchestrator that composes local microservices and binds Azure resources when publishing.
- Microservices (examples):
  - `Products` — product catalog (with SQL Server back end)
  - `Store` — demo front-end that aggregates other services
  - `AnalyzePhotoService`, `CustomerInformationService`, `ToolReasoningService`, `InventoryService`, `MatchmakingService`, `LocationService`, `NavigationService`
  - `SingleAgentDemo` and `MultiAgentDemo` (demo scenarios)
- Shared layers: `Shared`, `DataEntities`, `SearchEntities`, `VectorEntities`, `CartEntities`
- AI agents: Agent definitions and configurations are managed in Azure AI Foundry. Services call agents by ID; runtime configuration uses `aifoundry`/`aifoundryproject` keys.
- Infra: `ZavaAppHost/infra` and `azure.yaml` contain deployment metadata (used with `azd` or manual provisioning).

See `aspiredemo/ZavaAppHost/Program.cs` for the service composition and the configuration keys consumed at runtime.

---

## Necessary Cloud Resources needed for local run

Before running the demo locally you must provision a small set of cloud resources one time only; see the detailed guide here: [02 — Needed Cloud Resources](./02.NeededCloudResources.md). These resources (Azure AI Foundry project, model deployments, agent deployments, and any required search/index or storage connections) are required for the agents and demo services to work when run locally.

## Running in Terminal

Open PowerShell / Bash in this folder (`aspiredemo`) or navigate to the solution folder and run:

```powershell
# Restore dependencies
dotnet restore Zava-Aspire.slnx

# Build the solution
dotnet build Zava-Aspire.slnx

# Trust local dev certs for HTTPS
dotnet dev-certs https --trust

# Run 
dotnet run --project ./ZavaAppHost/ZavaAppHost.csproj
```

## Running in Visual Studio

1. Open `aspiredemo\Zava-Aspire.slnx` in Visual Studio.
2. In Solution Explorer, right-click the project '1 Aspire/ZavaAppHost' to run and select `Set as Startup Project`.
3. Press F5 to run (or Ctrl+F5 to run without debugging).

## Running in Visual Studio Code / Visual Studio Code Insiders

1. Open `aspiredemo` folder in Visual Studio Code / Visual Studio Code Insiders.
2. In Solution Explorer, right-click the project '1 Aspire/ZavaAppHost' to run and select `Set as Startup Project`.
3. Right-Click '1 Aspire/ZavaAppHost', Select 'Debug' -> 'Start New Instance'

The console will display the listening URL(s) (for example `https://localhost:17104/login?t=7040c2fb1bad0ebe1a467bd1ad076f5e`). Open the indicated URL in your browser to access the demo UI.

## 1st Run set secrets

The first time running the solution, the .NET Aspire dashboard will require you to set up the necessary secrets for accessing Azure resources.

![](./imgs/40-AspireFirstRun.png)

Complete the values in the form, where:

- `aifoundry` is the connection string: `Endpoint=https://<your-resource>.cognitiveservices.azure.com/;ApiKey=<your-api-key>`
- `applicationinsights` is the Application Insights connection string from your Application Insights resource
- 'aifoundruyproject' is the Project endpoint URL from your AI Foundry project settings page
- `customerinformationagentid`, `inventoryagentid` and all the other agent ids, are the agent IDs you created in the previous step; see [02 — Needed Cloud Resources](./02.NeededCloudResources.md) for details.

- check the `Save to user secrets` box to save them in your user secrets project for future runs.

![](./imgs/45-setAspireUserSecrets.png)

---
